**Title: Final Milestone Report on National Gallery of Art Dataset**

**Contributors:** 

-Pranathi:  I worked on the Summary and the Data profile sections. I also worked on answering the second research question by creating the SQL table to connect the media, media relations, and objects datasets together. Once I did this, I made a data visualization bar chart to compare the amount of traditional versus digital objects that were represented in the National Gallery of Art dataset. Once I did this, I was able to answer my research questions. This helped me add more to the Summary and Data profile sections. I also did the Metadata documentation section by importing the Data Dictionary information from the original National Gallery  of Art. I finished this part off by including the machine-readable descriptive metadata that described my project in conformance with the Schema.org standard. 

-Charlotte: I worked on the Future Work, Challenges, and Reproducing sections. I also worked on answering the first research question, with along with some collaboration with group members. To answer this question, I converted the Media table in our Museum database into a dataframe called digital_objects. Part of my analysis revolved around data cleaning and an examination of metadata and the structure of the opendata repository. I then used the ThreadPoolExecutor from the concurrent.features package and requests library to determine the status code that resulted from trying to access each link in the digital_objects dataframe (play_url, thumbnail_url, download_url, image_url). This helped us determine the accessibility of media objects in the data provided by the National Gallery of Art. Finally, I worked on creating the Snakemake file and setup.yml that allow for reproducibility, once again collaborating with my group members.

-Thea: I worked on data quality as well as data cleaning. I worked on answering the third research question by creating multiple graphs showing different statistics about the constituents database. I also added my findings to the document once that was done. I cleaned various databases and helped to create the DUCK DB tables. I looked through various databases to find the appropriate information that could answer my research question and summarized how the obejcts table did not have enough country location data. I then chose the constituents database and used that for analysis, running python commands that separated it into certain time periods to determine how many pieces of art were in the database from each time period and which artist was mentioned the most frequently among all of them. I made a bar chart to answer the second question and a donut chart to answer the first. I also helped to revise other parts of the final report. 

**Summary:** 

   In the digital age, the rise of digital media has made art easier to create and distribute. This poses an opportunity for museums to incorporate digital media into their catalogues, which blends traditional art curation methods with contemporary data archival practices. Therefore, our goal for this project is to analyze the historical and current practices of the National Gallery of Art Museum to gain a better understanding of the trends in art curation practices in this country. We will do this by combining various datasets provided by the Museum and analyzing them using SQL. The three of us worked together to draft a project plan and determine how we would split up the work, starting with analyzing our data and then answering our research questions based on our interpretations. There are several research questions that we will focus on to address our overall project goal: analyzing the historical and current practices of the National Gallery of Art Museum to gain a better understanding of the trends in art curation practices in the United States. The research questions we wanted to explore are:

1) Does the National Gallery of Art Museum use data management and storage techniques that allow for the preservation and accessibility of digital objects?
2) What is the difference between how digital and traditional media are treated in the National Gallery of Art Museum? Are there more digital items or traditional items?
3) We want to know what the relationship is between older, traditional works of art and modern works at the National Gallery of Art Museum in terms of what region they come from and the artist who made them.
   
Overall, we want to know what the relationship is between older, traditional works of art and modern works at the National Gallery of Art Museum in terms of what region they come from and the artist who made them. After answering our first research question, we found that the National Gallery of Art Museum provided a data dictionary in their repository as well as a relational model and extensive SQL code, which made analysis significantly easier. However, we had to perform additional data cleaning methods to merge categories that were misspelled, categorized incorrectly, and had typos. Additionally, we had to do additional searching on the National Gallery of Art Museum’s website to gain further information on what the digital objects were from the Media CSV file. We saw this as the main drawback to the ‘opendata’ repository since certain links provided in the Media CSV were only for internal use at the National Gallery of Art Museum.
When answering our first and second research questions, we answered this question by first using SQL to link the appropriate tables together. After doing this, we identified there were several null items in tables like the media_df table. After cleaning this data, we found that there was a disproportionate amount of digital media represented in the National Gallery of Art, as this was significantly underrepresented compared to the traditional media works in the Museum.

When answering the rest of our research questions, the first thing we did was look through datasets to see which had the relevant information, namely some kind of location value, an artist name, and a date created or donated. After scanning multiple datasets, we decided to do most of our work on the constituents CSV. One of the issues we ran into while answering the last question was the number of null values under the country in some categories. We noted this down as a data quality issue and decided to slightly pivot when analyzing the data.

**Data profile:** 

   The first dataset, which is the objects CSV, is located in the data and museum_db_export file in the GitHub folder, features several variables such as object ID, accession number, location ID, title, display date, etc., and demonstrates descriptions of each of the artworks displayed in the museum, with descriptions of what each of the artworks represents. In general, the datasets we’re working with are all located in the museum_db_export file. When looking at the objects CSV file specifically, the first artwork represented in the dataset is a painting of Artaud de Montor, which is described in this dataset as “a Canvas of a diplomat in Rome.” Therefore, this specific dataset is useful for us because it provides us more information about each specific artwork with descriptions of what the paintings like in this case is portraying. Despite there being a lot of European paintings represented in this dataset, all of its descriptions and additional details are in English, which makes it easier for us to analyze the data as we are provided with the appropriate information about the historical contexts behind each of the paintings and their origins. However, some of the issues we found were that there were certain elements that hindered the usefulness and accessibility of the data, such as there being a significant amount of missing values and many duplicate values that were misclassified. Some of the ethical and legal constraints this raises is the lack of transparency and accountability when it comes to this dataset hiding this missing information because we weren’t sure why certain values were missing and what to do with the values labeled as “null” or “NA”. However, for this dataset, we would say that it was extremely useful and helpful to answer our research questions because we were able to use sql to create the digital objects database. This helped us look at the different media types and how the digital and traditional media are treated in the National Gallery of Art Museum by seeing whether there’s more digital or traditional media represented.
​

   Similarly, the media items and media relationships datasets are equally important to answering our research question. For example, the media items are similar to the objects dataset but include information like the media type, title, description, duration, and media ID. This provides more information about each specific media, whereas the objects dataset just looks more broadly at the media and traditional works of art. The media relationships dataset has a different structure and content because the fields within this are media ID, related ID, and related entity. As seen in the open data relationship diagram, the structure of this dataset connects the related ID to the object ID. Overall, these media relations, media, and objects datasets are all important to answer our second research question because we created a SQL table to join the media and media relationship table to determine the amount of null values when connecting these tables. This helped us see how many of the artworks from the Museum were media artworks compared to traditional artworks. These datasets also helped us create data visualizations based on the number of null values that were being represented. While these two datasets were extremely helpful in helping us answer our research questions, there were still some drawbacks to them. For example, the ethical and legal constraints of the media dataset were that there was a significant amount of audio and video media types compared to other media types. This makes us question whether our dataset may unfairly represent these media types more than other types of media, since they’re not equally represented as much. Additionally, when it comes to the media relationships dataset, some of the ethical and legal constraints with this is the way the related ID is being represented, because how do we know if this attribute is correctly connected to the object's ID represented in the objects dataset? How can we verify whether these attributes are accurately linked with one another, other than by trusting the author who created the dataset? However, overall, we would say that the information in these datasets is pretty reliable and accurate since this dataset is being updated pretty frequently. Therefore, we can say that the results we gathered are pretty trustworthy, which gives us enough information to answer our research questions.
​

   The other datasets we used for this project include the constituents, object constituents, and object text entries. The constituents dataset consisted of the constituent ID as the primary key. The display dates, beginning/end years, etc., are additional keys that are helpful to helping us understand this dataset. When thinking about constituents in this context of the National Gallery of Art Museum, this refers to how various individuals, groups, and organizations are related to objects. For example, the names listed in this dataset refer to whether people are either collectors, donors, artists, photographers, etc. of these works of art. However, this dataset just consists of the names of contributors of different artworks without specifying whether these contributors were collectors, donors, artists, etc. When it comes to the other keys listed, these provide more information about the dates when constituents became donors and artists. This is determined by how old the artwork pieces are. The ethical and legal constraints of this dataset are that when listing the constituents of the different artworks, how can the people using the information verify that the constituents in the dataset consented to their names being there? Additionally, if the dataset never verifies the constituents’ relationship to the artworks being represented, how do we know whether the information is accurate? This raises several questions because there was nothing specified about whether the people represented in this dataset agreed for their information to be fully disclosed and included. However, since there are some anonymous constituents, we can make the assumption that if people didn’t want to be included, they would’ve said that before this dataset was published to the public. Additionally, before publishing this dataset, it is safe for us to assume that the constituents were informed that the artworks they were affiliated with would be included. Therefore, they had to be attributed, and their work had to be credited if their artworks appeared in the National Gallery of Art Museum.  
​

   The next dataset, which is the objects constituents dataset, contains more specific information about the constituents that are associated with each of the artworks in the museum. While this dataset didn’t have a primary key, the object ID is a foreign key that is connected to the primary key in the object's dataset, which is the object ID. Another key that is equally important is the constituent's ID, since this is connected to the primary constituent ID key from the constituents table. The objects constituent table is connected to the constituent ID in the constituents table to clearly demonstrate whether the donor, artist, painter, owners, etc. of the paintings continue to have that relationship with the artworks, or if that has changed in recent years. Both the constituents and object constituents datasets are vital because they help us answer the second research question when it comes to determining the relationships between digital versus traditional media artworks in the museum. For example, when answering this research question, we have to make sure that the information in the media, objects, and media relationship tables is all accurate. To do this, we have to make sure that the constituents match with one another and that each of the artists who contribute to various artworks is appropriately credited. However, some of the ethical and legal constraints that this raises are that if there are discrepancies with the object constituents and constituents being incorrectly matched or represented, this would lead to incorrect representations of the digital and traditional artworks in the dataset. Despite these constraints, we can reasonably conclude that the information in these two datasets is fairly accurate because of our data cleaning steps. We also double-checked our sources through additional research to verify that each of the constituents is attributed to the objects based on the artworks that are included.
​

   The final dataset in our project is the object text entries, which don’t have any primary keys, but the object ID is a foreign key that connects to the objects table. The other keys in this dataset are the text, text type, and year, which makes sense since the information presented in this dataset provides more details about what each of the objects is in the museum. For example, the object ID simply provides information about what the names of the artworks are and which collection they come from. For example, some of the artwork pieces come from the medieval paintings collection, while some belong to early exhibits of Italian paintings. The text field contains information about each of the artworks, and the text type tells us where the text for each of the artworks come from. This is usually represented as a bibliography, as most of the text for each of the artworks is bibliographic information. Finally, the last key in this dataset is the year, which simply tells us the year that the artworks were published in the museum. We needed this dataset to answer all our research questions because these text entries provided us with the needed information about each of the objects in the objects dataset. We needed to understand this to determine what artworks are represented in the museum, whether that be more traditional or digital works of art. It also helped us understand the older versus newer forms of artworks to answer our last research question about how the geographical information affects whether the works are represented as modern or more traditional. The only ethical and legal constraints associated with this data are the potential miscategorizations of some of the artworks being represented. For example, some of the artworks may inaccurately say they come from a specific collection or time period when this turns out to be false. However, since this data contains thousands of text entries for each object, we can conclude that the information is accurate and likely accounts for the majority of art pieces in the museum.


​   Overall, our six datasets provide us with the needed information to answer our research questions, and we can confirm that our datasets are accurate and reliable, given the fact that this National Gallery of Art open repository file is regularly updated with multiple entries for each of the datasets. For example, the objects, media, and media relationships help us answer the first and second research questions to create the digital objects table. This helped us determine the discrepancies between the amount of traditional versus digital artworks that were represented in the media and objects table. Finally, our last research question helped us look through each of the datasets we used to determine the relevant information. The specific fields we focused on were some kind of location value, an artist's name, and a date created or donated. After scanning multiple datasets, we decided to do most of our work on the constituents CSV. One of the issues we ran into while answering the last question was the number of null values under the country in some categories. We noted this down as a data quality issue and decided to slightly pivot when analyzing the data. With all of this information, we created data visualizations to specifically represent additional information about each of the artists. When doing this, we accounted for the missing values that were associated with each of the regions the artists came from.


**Data quality:** 

While reviewing the datasets that were provided by the museum, we got mixed results when it came to the quality of the data and its preservation. First off, all of the CSV files linked on GitHub were too large to open on a laptop, which became an accessibility issue. While we were able to work around that by opening the files as text files, because of this formatting, it was harder to read the data and thus harder to make certain analyses. Splitting the data up into smaller files that allow for more convenient stylistic choices might have made it easier on our end, and easier for other people who want to use the data in the future to read. There were quite a few missing values in the CSV files that had to be dropped. For example, when trying to answer the third research question, we noticed that most of the country values in the datasets we picked were null. There were varying amounts of missing data in each CSV file. Our group found that there were quite a few missing values in the Objects dataset, which made sense as it was the most information-dense. The categories in the Objects dataset that had the most missing values were ‘markings’ and ‘location’. This impeded any analysis we would potentially want to make on how the area an object was placed related to what type of media it was, or other correlations. Both of these categories had more than 100,000 missing values. 

Furthermore, lots of terms were used to describe the same thing within the same dataset, leading to confusion when it came to analysis. These were the most glaring issues in terms of quality, but there were positives as well. The CSV files were stored and openly available on GitHub, easily labeled for outside access. There was also a relational model pre-made for analysis, highlighting the primary and foreign keys in each dataset. Once the CSV files were imported into Visual Studio Code, we were able to use standard Python statements to access the data and clean it. Our experience analyzing these datasets has taught us how important it is for data to be kept high-quality and regularly updated. As mentioned previously, we had to pivot multiple times during this project because of a high amount of missing values, and had to spend time cleaning and standardizing the data. If someone wanted to reproduce our work, for example, they would run into the same issues we did. Furthermore, poorly kept data in a general situation can lead to incorrect assumptions being made from it, and this can lead to disastrous results depending on the context. If the data is being used to allocate relief efforts, for example, a wrong assumption based on data that hasn’t been kept properly can seriously harm civilians. 

All in all, we now understand as a group how important it is to make sure the choices you make with your datasets are purposeful and allow for easy analysis and future use.  We also understand the importance of cleaning data before drawing any conclusions or further analysis on it. This helps us understand why there are specific missing values, why this may be, and how we can clean the data to make sure these missing values aren’t left unaccounted for. For example, instead of a data field just being blank, we can add NA or missing to account for these values, and this helps us further understand how to answer our research questions. We had to account for all the missing values when answering all our research questions, and after doing this, we were able to get higher-quality data results. This allowed us to create a variety of visualizations, such as pie charts, bar charts, etc., to get a deeper understanding of the context behind the artworks represented in the National Gallery of Art.  

**Data cleaning:** 

As mentioned above, the main quality issues we found in all of our datasets were a large amount of missing values as well as a lack of consistency with labeling. To start our data cleaning, we did a dftypes statement for every database we imported into Visual Studio Code. We did this to see what type of values were stored in each database, which was important information to keep in mind when doing any sorting or dropping of values. The first dataset we cleaned was the media relationships dataset, which we found to have no missing values when running the Python code. The next dataset we cleaned was the media CSV file, which had a small amount of missing values but was inconsequential compared to further datasets. We also checked the types of values in the media dataset and found that it was mostly objects with one float and one integer value, duration, and mediaid, respectively. Next, we went on to cleaning the objects dataset. As mentioned above, this was the dataset with the most missing values. To start, the types of all the entries were either objects, integers, or floats. Categories such as objectid and iud had no missing values, but others had more than 100,000 missing. LocationId had 142,939 missing values. Displaydate had 11,514. Markings had 130,510, subclassification had 103,107, and so on. It would be pedantic to list every amount of missing values in this report, but roughly half of the categories in the dataset had at least 10,000 values missing. Part of the cleaning process for this dataset was changing these missing values to ‘unknown’, which would make it easier for analysis down the line. We also took the liberty of dropping categories that we knew were unrelated to our research question. For the objects dataset, for example, we dropped beginyear, endyear, creditline, and visualbrowsertimespan. 

Another cleaning process we did was adding ‘Not Linked’ for missing values under wikidataid. We followed similar processes for the rest of our datasets. For object constituents, we replaced 0’s under objectid with ‘NaN’, which would make it easier to sort later. Objectid was the category with the most missing values, so after making that change, we were able to have a relatively clean dataset with object, int, and float types. For the constituents dataset, more aggressive changes had to be made. For example, there were quite a few phrases used to describe an anonymous artist. Sometimes the placeholder was ‘anonymous artist,’ and sometimes it was ‘anonymous. We took the time to standardize this for processing. We ran Python code on two different categories in particular: preferred display name and forward display name. We made all of the entries lowercase and then replaced them with ‘Anonymous’. I mentioned previously in this section that most of our types were objects, integers, or floats. We did come across some strings, which we made an effort to change when creating our DuckDB tables. When we were setting all of the values, we made sure they were each one of the three aforementioned types above. This would help with standardization and, later down the line, analysis. 

Despite the fact that there were missing values, rather than ignoring these, we decided to adapt to these circumstances by adjusting our visualizations and analysis based on the discrepancies we noticed. When it came to answering the third question about the relationship between older, traditional works of art and modern works at the National Gallery of Art Museum, based on the region they come from and the artist who made them, we noticed that this regional term was rather ambiguous in the dataset because the only region we saw that was common was the “United Kingdom.” We had to account for all these missing values when it came to understanding the region that the artists came from, and this motivated us to move in a new direction when answering this question. We decided to reframe this question by answering it in terms of which artists were featured the most across various time periods. Overall, while there were several missing values in some of our datasets that required additional data cleaning, instead of forgetting about these missing values, we accounted for them and used them to our advantage when reframing how we would answer our research question. 

**Findings:** 

Our findings can be broken down into the results of our research questions:
1. Does the National Gallery of Art Museum use data management and storage techniques that allow for the preservation and accessibility of digital objects?
   
Based on our data analysis and cleaning of several datasets included in the National Art Museum's ‘opendata’ repository, we would say that the National Art Museum's data curation methods meet general data management standards that allow for the preservation and accessibility of digital objects. The National Art Museum provided a data dictionary in their repository as well as a relational model and extensive SQL code. There were certain elements that hindered the usefulness and accessibility of the data, such as there being a significant amount of missing values and many duplicate values that were misclassified in the objects dataset.  When using the requests library to determine the status code of each URL listed in the thumbnail, play, download, and image URL columns, all requests resulted in an error. Most of these error codes were 200, 401, 403, or 404 errors, indicating that the request either failed or succeeded, but the site data could not be properly accessed. For the download URLs, a significant amount (46.7%) of requests resulted in a 429 error. From an accessibility standpoint, the URLs being for internal use only hinder dataset users' abilities to further connect with and understand the digital media. However, the National Gallery of Art is still preserving the digital media files by hosting them on their website, and the National Gallery of Art also has to protect their artworks in terms of copyright and licensing, so this makes sense. 

2. What is the difference between how digital and traditional media are treated in the National Gallery of Art Museum? Are there more digital items or traditional items?
   
Since there are clearly more traditional pieces being represented, as seen with these data visualization charts, the difference between how digital and traditional media artworks are being represented in the Museum is that it heavily favors and prioritizes traditional media more than digital media pieces. When it comes to digital items, we saw that there were some overlaps and duplicates being represented in the objects dataset. However, after cleaning this and getting rid of the missing values, there was still a significant portion of traditional media works being represented compared to digital media works. The objects and media datasets include all of the digital artworks, so we had to do some additional data cleaning to make sure the media dataset only included the digital media works. After doing this additional data cleaning, the bar chart proved to be accurate and reliable in representing the differences between these two art items being represented.

3. We want to know the relationship between older, traditional works of art and modern works at the National Art Museum, in terms of their regional origins and the artists who made them.
   
When we approached this question, it became clear right off the bat that we would be working with three key metrics: artist name, time, and country. Upon first inspection of the datasets, we found a country value in the objects dataset, and assumed we would be able to do further analysis on it. However, when we looked further, we realized that most of the values were null, with the most common one being the United Kingdom. We had to pivot because of this, and turned to analyzing artists from different aggregates of time, asking ourselves which artist was featured the most. We chose four categories of time. Before 1000 AD, Medieval & Early Modern, 19th Century, and 20th Century. We chose these four categories to space out the data as much as possible to get even sections. For the first category, there were 29 pieces of art, and only three artists. In the second category of time, there were 32,796, with only 1,364 artists.  In the third category, there were 27,638 pieces of art and 3,152 artists. Finally, in the fourth category of time, there were 85,086 objects with 5,036 artists. These metrics allowed us to analyze which category of time was more prolific for the art museum, as well as which artists were featured the most. 

**Future work:** 

This report is focused solely on the data management and curation practices of the National Gallery of Art. Our findings are limited to one museum, so future work could look toward expanding this analysis to consider data management within the museum industry as a whole. The National Gallery of Art is located in Washington, D.C., and primarily features art from Europe and North America. By expanding this analysis to museums in different areas and with different focuses, future research may apply to museum curation as a more general field. Furthermore, our analysis was somewhat limited by the Western-centric catalog of the National Gallery of Art because we were initially interested in determining if there was a relationship between the type of art (traditional vs digital) and the geographic location of artworks and artists, but the country attribute of the constituents dataset had a significant number of null values. Even without these null values, the majority of these artworks came from the same few countries, which made it difficult to answer our research question. Future work could consider a more global perspective, so wider trends in data management and curation among museums can be analyzed. 

Another lesson that was learned through this project was that publicly available data may still have certain accessibility issues. For example, the links to images and videos of digital artwork in the media dataset were all inaccessible to the general public, as the links were for internal use at the National Gallery of Art. This hindered our analysis, although we were able to comment on this particular data storage practice used by the National Gallery of Art. For future research on the National Gallery of Art, it may be beneficial to determine if there is a way to access the information stored in these links, such as by going through the National Gallery of Art’s website. This way, researchers can gain a better understanding of the art by actually viewing it. Even if future work does not specifically focus on the National Gallery of Art, it is still important to keep in mind that access to additional information within the dataset (such as links) should be verified if it is considered an important aspect of the analysis. Further analysis could also be conducted on the differences and similarities of how digital and traditional artworks are both stored and displayed within museums. While our analysis does begin to assess the data storage and management practices that are used for digital vs traditional art, it is within a limited scope of one museum. We also did not consider how digital artworks are displayed by the museum, so understanding the place of digital media in art exhibits and displays is another area of research that could expand this research. 

Finally, this analysis could also be expanded outside of just art museums. Our research questions and data are related to art specifically, but data management and curation practices apply to all different types of archival work. It may even be worthwhile to compare the different data standards and practices of art museums and other types of museums (such as scientific or historical). This could allow for communication between areas, for example, a set of standards that can be applied to art curation that originate from scientific museums. For example, if we were to look at museums in New York that focus specifically on the science industry, we can begin to compare and contrast the works in these museums to those in the National Gallery of Art. This might make us question why some museums might prioritize or represent digital art pieces, while others, like the National Gallery of Art Museum prioritize traditional art pieces. This may also help us understand the different time periods that are emphasized and prioritized across different museums. For example, do other art museums prioritize Victorian periods of art, or do they prioritize more modern periods of art? This helps us further answer and understand our research questions to help us analyze how art has changed over time and what factors influence certain art pieces to be prioritized or preserved more than others. This might make us come up with and answer even more research questions, such as the potential biases in this museum if certain time periods or artists are heavily emphasized or highlighted more than others. 

**Challenges:** 

One of the most significant challenges that we encountered while working on this project was determining how to handle the significant amount of missing values in the datasets, and determining how we could meaningfully conduct analysis based on our research questions when certain aspects of the data were missing. For example, there were many missing values in the objects dataset, such as in the markings column, that limited the amount of information we could gather about the objects. Furthermore, we faced challenges standardizing different terms  in the datasets. Some artists were called “anonymous” while others were called “anonymous artist”, so we chose to rename any missing or anonymous artists as simply “anonymous” in the constituents dataset. Outside of data cleaning, we also faced difficulties using Git in a collaborative environment. While our repository seems to be set up correctly, we still ended up with merge conflicts even when we were not modifying the same file at the same time. This required us to work on the coding aspects of the project in person at times, or just have one team member add all of our changes before committing. Due to having limited experience with Snakemake, our group also struggled to create the file needed to automate our scripts. 

The main issue was that we were unsure how to pass the DuckDB databases that we created from our six datasets into Python scripts as input. We learned that this could be done directly by listing the database as an input for the rules of the Snakemake file, but it required that we did not import DuckDB in the Python scripts that we were using. Once the Snakemake file was working locally, we had a few more issues ensuring that it could be run in a new environment. When using a standard codespace provided by GitHub, we ran into the issue of certain dependencies, such as DuckDB, not being available in the environment despite running commands to install them on the device. This method installed the packages on our computers, but it did not ensure that they were made available to the specific environment that was being used. So instead, we decided to create a YAML file that would create a Conda environment called setup. Using the setup environment, the proper packages could be installed and used. While this worked, after creating and initializing the environment, we had to first close the terminal and then open another terminal to run our Snakemake file. This is a simple workaround to the errors we experienced, but it was difficult to debug these errors and determine that opening a new terminal would fix the problem. Overall, we faced several challenges throughout the project, from data cleaning to reproducibility. We were able to resolve most of the issues, although certain problems, such as the significant amount of missing values, did impact our analysis.

Another challenge we had while cleaning our datasets was making sure we were keeping track of the difference between unknown and purposeful null values, as those represent different things in the dataset. We were also conflicted on whether we should create new versions of the datasets or just save changes to them. 

**Reproducing:** 

1) Run in terminal: “conda env create -f setup.yml” (this may take a a few minutes)
2) Run in terminal: “conda init bash”
3) Close terminal and open a new terminal
4) Run in terminal: “conda activate setup”
5) Run in terminal: “snakemake --cores 1”
* Note: do not use quotes in the terminal commands
* Note: it may take up to 15 minutes for the snakemake automation to complete

**References:** 
The National Gallery of Art Open Data File on GitHub: https://github.com/NationalGalleryOfArt/opendata/tree/main/data

The licenses we used: Creative Commons Zero v1.0 Universal: The Creative Commons CC0 Public Domain Dedication waives copyright interest in a work you've created and dedicates it to the worldwide public domain. (came from the original National Gallery of Art open data repository we used for this project)

Project Metadata: This repository contains machine-readable metadata. You can access the Schema.org JSON-LD file at: metadata/metadata.jsonld
